.TH "netlabelctl" 1 "25 June 2008" "paul.moore@hp.com" "NetLabel Documentation"
.//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.SH NAME
.//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
netlabelctl \- NetLabel management utility
.//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.SH SYNOPSIS
.//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.B netlabelctl
[<global flags>] <module> [<module commands>]
.//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.SH DESCRIPTION
.//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
The NetLabel management utility, netlabelctl, is a command line program
designed to allow system administrators to configure the NetLabel system in the
kernel.  The utility is based around different "modules" which correspond to
the different types of NetLabel commands supported by the kernel.
.//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.SH OPTIONS
.//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.SS Global Flags
.TP 5
.B -h
Help message
.TP 5
.B -p
Attempt to make the output human readable or "pretty"
.TP 5
.B -t <seconds>
Set a timeout to be used when waiting for the NetLabel subsystem to respond
.TP 5
.B -v
Enable extra output
.TP 5
.B -V
Display the version information
.//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.SS Supported Modules
.TP 5
.B mgmt
.P
The management module is used to perform general queries about the NetLabel
subsystem within the kernel.  The different commands and their syntax are
listed below.
.HP
.I version
.br
Display the kernel's NetLabel management protocol version.
.HP
.I protocols
.br
Display the kernel's list of supported labeling protocols.
.TP 5
.B map
.P
The domain mapping module is used to map different NetLabel labeling protocols
to either individual LSM domains or the default domain mapping.  It is up to
each LSM to determine what defines a domain.  With SELinux, the normal SELinux
domain should be used, i.e. "ping_t".  When specifying the labeling protocol
to use for each domain mapping there is an optional "extra" field which is used
to further identify the specific labeling protocol configuration.  When
specifying the unlabeled protocol, "unlbl", there is no extra identification
needed.  When specifying the CIPSO/IPv4 protocol, "cipsov4", the DOI value
should be specified; see the EXAMPLES section for details.  The different
commands and their syntax are listed below.
.HP
.I add default|domain:<domain> protocol:<protocol>[,<extra>]
.br
Add a new LSM domain to NetLabel protocol mapping.
.HP
.I del default|domain:<domain>
.br
Delete an existing LSM domain to NetLabel protocol mapping.
.HP
.I list
.br
Display all of the configured LSM domain to NetLabel protocol mappings.
.TP 5
.B unlbl
.P
The unlabeled (unlbl) module controls the unlabeled labeling protocol which is
used by domains for outbound traffic when packet labeling is not desired as
well as when unlabeled packets are received by the system.  At present the
unlabeled module is very simple, supporting only one configurable action:
allow or disallow unlabeled packets to be delivered to user applications.  The
different commands and their syntax are listed below.
.HP
.I accept on|off
.br
Toggle the unlabeled traffic accept flag.
.HP
.I list
.br
Display the status of the unlabeled accept flag.
.TP 5
.B cipsov4
.P
The CIPSO/IPv4 (cipsov4) module controls the CIPSO/IPv4 labeling engine in the
kernel.  The CIPSO/IPv4 engine provided by NetLabel supports multiple Domains
Of Interpretation (DOI) and the CIPSO/IPv4 module allows for different
configurations for each DOI.  At present there are two types of configurations,
the "trans" configuration which allows on-the-fly translation of MLS
sensitivity labels and the "pass" configuration which does not perform any
translation of the MLS sensitivity label.  Regardless of which configuration
type is chosen a DOI value must be specified as well as the list of CIPSO/IPv4
tag types to use when generating CIPSO/IPv4 packet labels.  The list of
CIPSO/IPv4 tags is ordered such that when possible the first tag type listed is
used when a CIPSO/IPv4 label is generated.  However, if it is not possible to
use the first tag type then each tag type is checked, in order, until a
suitable tag type is found.  If a valid tag type can not be found then the
operation causing the CIPSO/IPv4 label will fail, typically this occurs
whenever a new socket is created.  The different commands and their syntax are
listed below.
.HP
.I add trans doi:<DOI> tags:<T1>,<Tn> levels:<LL1>=<RL1>,<LLn>=<RLn> categories:<LC1>=<RC1>,<LCn>=<RCn>
.br
Add a new CIPSO/IPv4 configuration using the standard/translated mapping with
the given level and category translations.  The levels are translated in such a
way that the local level "LLn" is translated to the remote, on-the-wire level
of "RLn"; the reverse translation is done for incoming packets.  The same
translation is done for the categories using "LCn" and "RCn".  In order for a
packet to be accepted, or a socket created by an application, there must be a
translation for the sensitivity level and all the categories present in the MLS
sensitivity label; if the entire requested sensitivity label can not be
translated the application will fail.
.HP
.I add pass doi:<DOI> tags:<T1>,<Tn>
.br
Add a new CIPSO/IPv4 configuration without any level or category translations.
.HP
.I del doi:<DOI>
.br
Delete an existing CIPSO/IPv4 configuration with the given DOI value.  If any
LSM domain mappings are present which make use of this DOI they will also be
deleted.
.HP
.I list [doi:<DOI>]
.br
Display a list of all the CIPSO/IPv4 configurations or just the configuration
matching the optionally specified DOI.
.//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.TP 5
.I netlabelctl cipsov4 add pass doi:16 tags:1
.br
Add a CIPSO/IPv4 configuration with a DOI value of "16", using CIPSO tag "1"
(the permissive bitmap tag).  The CIPSO and LSM levels/categories are passed
through the NetLabel subsystem without any translation.
.HP
.I netlabelctl cipsov4 add trans doi:8 tags:1 levels:0=0,1=1 categories:0=1,1=0
.br
Add a CIPSO/IPv4 configuration with a DOI value of "8", using CIPSO tag "1"
(the permissive bitmap tag).  The specified mapping converts local LSM levels
"0" and "1" to CIPSO levels "0" and "1" respectively while local LSM categories
"0" and "1" are mapped to CIPSO categories "1" and "0" respectively.
.HP
.I netlabelctl -p cipsov4 list
.br
Display all of the CIPSO/IPv4 configurations in a human readable format.
.HP
.I netlabelctl -p cipsov4 list doi:16
.br
Display specific information about the CIPSO/IPv4 DOI 16 configuration.
.HP
.I netlabelctl cipsov4 del doi:8
.br
Delete the CIPSO/IPv4 configuration assigned to DOI 8.  In addition to
removing the CIPSO/IPv4 configuration any domain mappings using this
configuration will also be removed.
.HP
.I netlabelctl map add domain:lsm_domain protocol:cipsov4,8
.br
Add a domain mapping so that all outgoing packets sent from the "lsm_domain"
will be labeled according to the CIPSO/IPv4 protocol using DOI 8.
.HP
.I netlabelctl -p map list
.br
Display all of the domain mappings in a human readable format.
.HP
.I netlabelctl del domain:lsm_domain
.br
Delete the domain mapping for the "lsm_domain", packets sent from the
"lsm_domain" will fallback to the default NetLabel mapping.
.//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.SH "NOTES"
.//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
This program is currently under development, please report any bugs to the
author.
.//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.SH "AUTHOR"
.//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
Paul Moore <paul.moore@hp.com>
.//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
<other pages to be created at a future date>
